
## Current Thoughts

I thought I had a relatively good grasp of R until this course. As it
turns out, I had only scratched the surface with how R’s functionality
can be used with Github and Docker. Before this course, I didn’t use any
functions or loops or scraping data from an API to code. I strictly
adhered to using various statistical methods (such as Time Series) and
`ggplot` to visualize my data. After various homework assignments and
projects, I realize that R has so much more to it than I originally
anticipated, which is causing me to dive deeper into the projects and
work that I am currently doing. I definitely will use R, along with SAS
and SQL, to further progress my efforts in becoming a data scientist.
The vast number of applications that R possesses in understanding big
data and telling a story with a data set is coupled by how easy it is to
figure out syntax and learning about each function through the CRAN
project.

## Practice Adjustments

I think in the future I will definitely utilize Github and Github Pages
to present reports, as well as keeping track of all my files. Using
projects and cloning them from Github makes it remarkably easier to code
and have all my files in one environment to reduce clutter. I will also
be using a lot more machine learning techniques (primarily experimenting
with tuning parameters) to select models that can accurately model test
data. Besides Good Programming Practices, I think Github provides a much
better step-by-step replication of projects and examining individual
files or packages needed to code something similar in the future.

## New Fields

I definitely want to understand more about Machine Learning, though I do
have some exposure to Time Series in R. I would very much enjoy
understanding how Time Series can be used to model Markov Chains and
various stochastic processes through code.
